The Joe Rogan.
Experience. Flesh eaters. Yeah.
They'll they'll up a dog.
They're weird. I, you know, so like one of the things,
I think it points to a certain amount of, uh, sociopath that I have.
But
when I hear about someone losing a cat,
her dog to wild creatures,
I don't like my initial instinct isn't to be sad. Mm.
I see what you're saying. You're like, wow. That's part of the, because.
You kind of view you sort of, I have this view that
yeah. I have this view of that, that, that sort of like settlement and the,
the wildlife mm-hmm <affirmative> is,
is a global problem. Right. And one always wins,
like the destruction of wildlife habitat always wins. And then when you see it,
it, when you see it play out like that,
in some ways you kind of like hope like Ryan Kelly, who, you know yep.
Recently, uh, you know, that kid got a, a young kid,
it was like a nine or 10 year old girl got thrown up in the air by bison. Yeah.
Did you see that? Yeah. In Yellowstone. Yeah. And by no means,
as Cal hoped to see someone, you know, especially particularly a child get hurt,
but he is like, you know, they still got it. <laugh>.
Yeah. You can't, you can't just close in on a bison.
They apparently got within 15 yards of that thing, which is just ridiculous.
Yeah. I think I keep thinking about making a shirt that says, um,
Yellowstone national park, uh, habituating wildlife since 1877,
they do. It is.
Weird. Uh, I've only been once. Well, I went once when I was a kid,
but I went once recently, my family. And it was, uh,
very weird that you could take selfies with elk. Yeah.
These big herds of elk are so confident that people won't shoot 'em when they're
in like the public tourism area that they just go and hang out near the vending
machine. Yeah. So I'm getting a diet Coke and there's an elk,
like 30 yards away from me. It's so strange.
That's that's a little,
little bit in line with what that's a little bit in line with what I'm talking
about. When I talk about like that,
when I hear someone's dog got killed by a coyote. Yeah.
You know, and again, man, I know like, like my brother has this little dog,
he just loves and they're inseparable. Um,
if that dog got carried off by a great horn owl
in a healthy greatho now could carry this dog off. It's like a little and dog,
I would feel real bad for him. Uh, so with that said, I,
I do have this thing where you kind of root.
And I do feel sad when I see like in a place like
Yellowstone, this is where it gets a little bit weird when,
when I see an wild animals, especially animals that people hunt for.
When I see that they've lost their fear of humans,
some people would look and be like, oh, this is like,
what naturally they should be like, okay.
So this is animals where they've had to give up their human where they've lost
their human fear because we've given 'em this wild place.
I see.
Old timey, old time, real steveella man. <laugh>.
I that's a good dude, Joe fairauto call him. He's a good guy. Uh,
people see in, in like a Yellowstone park atmosphere,
you see where wildlife becomes habituated to humans and they feel like they're
seeing something more natural, right. Because outside of human hunting, they,
all of a sudden don't have that feeling anymore.
I look at that and I see that it's like, um,
to me it feels like something's been subverted and something's wrong with that
situation. Yeah.
Because it sort of depends on how fresh your perspective is because I mean,
people have been hunting, uh, you know, people have been hunting in that area.
I mean, at least 10,000 years.
So then we take like a hundred year break and the animals become very accustomed
to people. It's, it's shocking how quickly they can get it back.
And oftentimes those same elk that live like the same elk that will spend their
summer in that park will migrate out of there and go into national forest and on
ranchland and then they'll be wearing where they can be hunt.
And they know they cross that line.
So the same elk that some dude could basically walk up and touch.
There will just something in his head switch and he enters and
they enter into a new mind space when they leave.
And they're still exposed to human predation. And if they wind you they'll bolt.
Oh yeah. It's, it's, it's shocking how it's shocking to the degree,
to which they, the degree to which they can keep this together in their heads.
And it's also pretty surprising how, how quickly they adapt.
Like I would imagine if you were to open
up, this would be a pretty controversial idea, but I'll throw it out there.
Let's say you were to open up hunting in yellow, national park.
I think that it would probably be less than a year.
I think like us season a fall hunting season would have them right back into the
same mindset that all the other animals that,
that live with human predation, their sort of attitude toward people.
I think they'll very quickly get it back. That makes sense. But yeah,
people going up and Peting stuff, um, again, like referring to cow,
his ideas that like
people have gotten to where they confuse national parks with the amusement parks
and they feel that the animals are like on rails. <laugh>, you know,
they're on track stay. Yeah. They just, and it's like,
they're programmed to do a certain thing, but it's still wild. Well.
It's one thing that I've discovered over the last seven years, thanks to you.
And thanks to you getting me hunting is that most people have,
have no idea what it's like to be around actual wildlife to sneak up to them.
N most people have no idea about their sense of smell. Yeah.
Like to see an animal wind you and then just bounce to, to see that.
And to know that like you're dealing with some superhuman ability,
some like impossible to imagine with the
confines of your own biology, what these animals can do. And when you're,
when you're out amongst them and there's no cell phone service and there's,
it's just footprints and treking your way through mountains.
It's amazing. Yeah. I mean, it's,
it's not Yellowstone what Yellowstone is and what, anything like that.
And zoos is the worst example. Right. But when we think of animals,
like people always tell me like, like, cuz you know, I have a famous dog.
I run with him all the time and he's on my Instagram. And it's like,
everybody loves him. He's a sweet EST dog in the world. They're like,
I know that dog, if you love dogs, how could you, how could you hunt animals?
And I'm like, well that's no, that's not, he's not an animal. He's a dog.
He's a pet. He's, there's a science project. An,
an animal is a Wolf. An animal is a deer. That's an animal. What a dog is.
They don't outside of us. If you don't take care of them,
they won't know what to do.
They'll hope that the dog catcher comes and gets 'em and then somebody rescues
'em they're not wild animals. It's not.
And has it almost has less to do with how they're raised and more to do with
their ancestors. Like their, their biology has changed.
They've literally been bred to something different. They're a science project.
Yeah. And you see my dog, he's got floppy ears. He's a sweetheart.
Everybody who meets him,
he drops through his back and he wants you to rub his belly.
He's just the sweetest dog in the world. That is not a dog. I mean,
it's not an animal, there's not an animal like that.
That would ever exist out in the wild. Cuz if he sees another dog, he's like,
hello, are you my friend? He's not like checking you,
the thing's gonna steal his food or, or Rob him of his mates or, or,
or kill his babies. Yeah. He's.
A, it's it is the result of a 20,000 or whatever year
experimentation with the domestication.
Of an animal. Yeah. So most people, when they say they love animals,
they don't even know any. They don't even know what they are.
They see the caged animals at the zoo. They see the animals on a rope that they,
they take to the dog park. They think they know what an animal is.
They don't even have any experience with it.
We've been so domesticated and so isolated in cities.
Most people, especially most people that have opinions on this, you know,
people that live in rural areas. I mean,
you know that you live in both man and Bozeman is, you know,
surrounded by these areas that are just completely wild. I mean,
if you're in Bozeman,
you can drive an hour from your house and then you're around bears and D yeah,
yeah, yeah. And Eagles, I mean, it's a completely wild place,
but people that are in those areas, people around Boise, Idaho, for example,
they have a totally different idea. People in Wyoming,
they have a totally different idea of what wildlife is versus somebody who lives
in Santa Monica. Like there's a video that just somebody sent me today of, um,
a guy in a thousand Oaks, uh, is uh,
on his street and he's filming a enormous mountain lion. I mean,
it is huge. It's a big boy. It's like 150 pounds and uh,
they're in the car and they're looking at it through the window and him and his
son, it seems like, are, are filming this thing going, holy, look at this thing.
Yeah, yeah. Is right there on the street, a big cat.
And he was saying that like somebody was filming,
somebody was feeding it apparently. And they're,
they're trying to figure out what you want me to send it to you. Um,
I'll send it to you. Yes. But this, uh, you know, that's,
that's super rare. I mean, that's a real wild animal. It's super,
super rare that,
that anybody would have any kind of experience with one of these things.
And most people that are talking about animals that just really don't know what
that he even means. They're just saying it. Yeah. I think.
That there there's developed a, like a,
a pretty big cultural division between people who, um,
a pretty big cultural division between people who kind of like live around,
work around and deal with animals and people who view them or think of them as
very other, uh, a friend of mine. Who's a biologist this, oh, there you go.
Yeah.
No, no. I'm sending you another one. I sent it to you. It's it's uh,
from thousand Oaks, I just sent it to you. A friend of mine. That's one though.
That's a, that's a recent one too.
Uh, buddy of mine,
who's a biologist with the forest service guy named Carl Malcolm.
He might have heard on our, our show. Uh,
he just sent me a paper that was about kids' attitudes to
wildlife. And it was comparing rural people's attitude and knowledge of wildlife
kids with urban and, and suburban attitudes about wildlife.
And you, you can see the input of media when you look at this thing, because
people who live in an urban or suburban environment,
when they tell you the top of mind,
wildlife that they know about it's non-native stuff like lions.
Yeah. They're likely to know like what's, what's an animal, right.
And an animal will be like, oh, it'd be like a draft. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>. And, and people who have a more, um,
rural or remote viewpoint would be,
are much more likely to when they think of wildlife to think of things that they
interact with, you know, and not like the things that are on your mobile,
above your crib when you're a little baby. Right. And it sort of points.
And also you, there there's a slight tendency.
I gotta look at this more carefully, but there's a slight tendency to have, uh,
negative feelings or think things are dangerous or bad.
The more urban you are in terms of native wildlife to
more recognize it as like a negative or bad thing.
And what they're pointing to is, um, again,
I wanna look at this much more careful and pardon me to the authors of authors.
If I'm messing this up, I was just looking at it this morning. Um,
what they're pointing to is the, the,
the stirrings of there being a, a greater acceptance of decreased biodiversity.
Hmm. Meaning that you're kind of like, okay,
with the bad things having gone and we're focused on like, what are animals?
Well, animals would be like a draft and hippotommus,
and the things that that Disney tells me about,
and not like aposums and raccoons, which are kind of gross. Hmm. You know,